# Vehicle-Emissions-Registrations-and-Sale-Forecasts-in-the-UK-and-Great-Britain
This report considers data from the onset of the production of battery electric vehicles (BEVs) as well as the data on petrol and diesel vehicle registrations up till the present day. The analysis of this data brings to light the financial implications of the electric vehicle production, sales, as well as the future projections of those sales, thus making a recommendation on the viability of the electric vehicle manufacturing industries. This study examined data from different reliable sources to look at market developments and how that is affecting the sales and demand of battery electric vehicles in contrast to electric combustion engine vehicles (ICE) in the UK and Great Britain, the factors that led to those changes, and the likelihood of probable changes in the coming years. Additionally, comparison of CO2 emissions between electric and diesel/petrol cars was done.
## Steps
1.	Data Collection and Importation: data of different vehicles produced as well as the cost and number of sales in the United Kingdom (UK) was explored and imported into the local Mathematica Notebook.
2.	Data Pre-procession and Cleaning: this revolved around putting the imported data into a more suitable form for the analysis, especially the registrations of the electric vehicles in the UK as well as the petrol and diesel cars, and the emissions data. We transformed the unstructured and unclean data into structured and easy to use xlsx files that can be imported into Mathematica. 
3.	Data Analysis Process: the analysis stage explored Mathematica functions that sought to train, visualize as well as check the accuracy of proposed models of interpretation. We used various functions and commands to clean and make the data more readable and comprehensible, as well as to remove parts of the data that would obstruct plotting. To visualize our findings, plotting was done using DateListPlot. Again, to compare our findings, a time series model was run with its accompanying time series forecasts.
4.	The results: this demonstrates the outcome of the analysis performed on the datasets. This consisted of visualization graphs, comparative graphs as well as predictive and forecast model diagrams. The data acquired gave us an insight on future projections in the vehicle markets upon which we made our conclusions.
5.	Conclusion: this is where we came to a suitable recommendation based on the results of our analysis. We concluded that battery electric vehicle production and sales are going to increase as opposed to that of diesel and petrol vehicles, due to various reasons, some of which are financial costs, environmental implications, as well as the eco-friendly nature of EVs.
## Introduction
As the world shifts towards more sustainable and renewable energies, there’s a global pressure on governments and countries to help aid in the battle against climate change. Populations endeavour to have as little of a carbon footprint as possible. A larger scale to achieve this goal has been to reduce Carbon Dioxide (CO¬2) emissions.
It is widely known that internal combustion engine vehicles, including petrol and diesel vehicles emit CO¬2 into the atmosphere as the fuel within is burned. This leads to various health complications, it causes the Earth’s temperature to rise, and increases its natural greenhouse effect. CO2 levels are higher today than ever, and with climate change and global warming, governments and companies are compelled to find solutions to these problems before it’s too late. [5]
Due to these reasons, vehicle manufacturing companies are responding to this call and doing their part by producing electric versions of their cars. New electric vehicle companies are growing (Lucid Motors, Rivian), and there’s a great competition between those companies to produce the most battery and software efficient cars with a user-friendly interface.
Electric vehicles are now being purchased in greater numbers than at any other time in history. They may initially cost more than traditional vehicles, but their maintenance cost, and the fact that they don’t require fuel to work, makes them cheaper which is a good return on investment in the long term. 
There are arguments that electric vehicles are not the answer, due to the non-renewable state of electricity, and the emission release in their line of production. While that may hold some truth, they are still a better trade off than diesel and petrol vehicles. This report aims to demonstrate the actual extent of those statements.
